The Issue of Migration and Population in China
Migration is an issue that every country must deal with due to the amount of people that exist. No matter the size of the country, people travel in and out all the time for different purposes like going on vacation, looking for a new place to live, or even just to visit family. Migration also goes hand in hand with development and economics as development of areas may attract people who are looking for job opportunities, and improved economies may entice people as well. With overpopulation a possibility in the future, governments must plan ahead and develop set plans for city expansion among other things to ensure that the cities themselves must get overcrowded. Urban sprawl is also an issue as increases in urban expansion can lead to less farmland for agriculture use and “land fragmentations” (Deng et al., 2019) China is a prime example for observing migration and some issues related to migration as not only is the country’s area big, but it’s population is also massive causing it to have the largest population out of any country in the world. Even though China has a extremely large land mass, a large portion of that land is very sparsely populated and there are many urban centers among the provinces which house many people. Urban areas are extremely popular places because they provide a multitude of things such as shelter for many and job opportunities in cheap labor. Because of this, cities in China are a hotspot for migration, and some citizens may even travel to other cities for a better job opportunity. Although it is known that the population in China will keep increasing, no one is sure to what extent and how rapidly the population will grow. Because of this studying spatial patterns and growth over time is very beneficial in predicting how and where people will migrate eventually and how much migration and the population can increase by. A common trend of where migration will increase is when Chinese New Year occurs, and also when an urban area’s economy or need for cheap labor increases. As a need for cheap labor increases, more people will flock there especially from rural areas in search of job opportunities. The most important questions that affect migration are “how will migration increase as the living conditions and government plans improve?”,”how much will migration and the population increase as time goes by?”, and “what is the comparison between rural to urban migration as compared to urban to rural migration?” This topic relates to Amartya Sen’s definition of human development as more development and accommodation allows for more freedom and less restriction. The only issue is finding that freedom without sacrificing too much in an environment sense of an economic sense. 
I looked at multiple studies in an effort to understand the developmental problem better and what methods and models researchers used in certain studies to achieve their goals. The main method of data that seemed to be used were datasets from Tencent’s location data (Pan & Lai 2019). Tencent is one of the largest internet-based companies in the world and releases many different products for customers, such as video games like League of Legends and Call of Duty for younger audiences and insurance and e-commerce for older people. One of its most important functions however, is the two social media related apps that it provides, which are Wechat and QQ. Both of these social media applications are extremely important to Chinese citizens as Snapchat and other American social media apps are blocked in China. Because these are some of the few applications for social media that Chinese citizens are allowed to use, many Chinese citizens have these apps downloaded, allowing their location data to be tracked so patterns in movement of people can be seen. It is through this method that many of the researchers got their data and it seems to be one of the most accurate out of the methods used purely because so many people use Tencent’s apps. Because of how far around the world and in China Tencent reaches, a large proportion of people end up using it so it represents the Chinese population the best as anyone who has a mobile phone regardless of version can use their apps (Pan and Lai, 2019). According to statistics, Tencent’s Wechat and Tencent had about “62% and 68% of the total population using the apps, respectively” (Zhang et al., 2020)The studies that used data from Tencent differed greatly in their methods. One of the studies that I looked at used Tencent’s data for the purpose of testing and seeing the patterns of mobility among Chinese citizens during the Spring Festival. Because the Spring Festival is New Year’s for the Chinese, it is almost mandatory that an individual goes home and celebrates it with family regardless of distance. The researchers used a complex network analysis method for their study, which uses nodes and bidirectional flow in combination with other methods such as social media analysis to characterize overall population flow (Pan & Lai, 2019). By using this method, they were able to portray the top ten cities which had the highest population flow. The researchers seamlessly integrated an important part of complex network analysis in social media analysis through using Tencent due to Tencent’s heavy involvement in social media. This study was useful as it helped show that migration in China was a complex system mainly due to the amount of people that lived there as well as the deep-rooted tradition of coming home to parents and other relatives causing millions of people to take different methods of transportation back to their hometowns. This information on complex network analysis is useful as if Tencent or another internet-based company’s data is what I am looking into as data for a study I may conduct, knowing the complex network analysis method may be useful as it goes hand in hand with social media analysis. There was another study that was very similar to the first study as they wanted to look into almost the same thing and used Tencent’s heatmap data as a starting point for their study (Hu, 2019). Both Chinese New Year studies saw that there was a migration away from urban areas and more towards rural areas probably due to the fact that people go to the city looking for jobs instead of searching for a permanent residence. Another article I looked at had a slightly different plan as it wanted to study the migration of people from rural to urban areas in China. The researchers used datasets which were pulled from Tencent for the same reasons as the previous article, and they used an infrared imaging instrument to get grid cells based on the nocturnal artificial lights of the study areas. After acquiring the grid cells they were able to separate them into urban or rural based on the amount of artificial lights in the area (Ma et al., 2018). The researchers then found a dataset of rural out migrants so that they could use it for their study and then used Zivot and Andrew’s unit root test and Mann-Whitney U Test to find differences between urban and rural grid cells (Ma et al., 2018). This test was unique because the researchers tried to connect census data for people’s migration numbers with the dataset information from Tencent. I was slightly confused about this source because if the census data was outdated I was unsure if it could possibly mess with the spatial and temporal data that was taken from Tencent. Tencent was an integral part in another study I looked at which seemed similar to the above study of population flow. The study was a study on land development as a whole in the Yunnan Province, but the one part abou traffic flow greatly resembled previous studies. Because the researchers wanted to study traffic flow, which relates to migration, they looked into using Tencent for transportation data. They use the API from Tencent, which allowed them to get data on rail and bus transportation and then use that data and then used the ESRI ArcGIS tool to process the data(Zong et al., 2018). Although the two studies had different purposes, they both had a reliance on Tencent, especially when it came to data that was based on transportation. Tencent’s big data was also used in a study on spatial patterns and on what factors influenced migration. Because they were also tracking transportation, they were using Tencent’s data to look for position change on railways, highways and aviation (Zhang et al., 2020). Overall, Tencent seems to be a reliable place to acquire data from due to the range of its coverage and the many people that it covers. A good amount of studies that I looked at used this data, leading me to believe that this may be the most accurate and useful source of data to look at and use data from.

Another dataset that was used in some studies was census data. Although census data is official, it may not be the most accurate method and it may be outdated due to the fact that census’ are not taken that often. Because of this, census data may possibly be outdated as compared to more modern methods like using data from internet companies. However, it is still possible to learn from studies that use census data as they offer a simpler view on how a conclusion can be reached. An older study that I reviewed used census data to satisfy its purpose of seeing how migration impacted China. It was very basic as it just analyzed two census’ that were taken in between 1990 and 2000 to look for correlation and any changes that occurred. Although very outdated and in the past compared to the big data we have today, the researchers were still able to find correlation between government developments and migration levels(Fan, 2005) However, with the big data capabilities that we have today and the ability to obtain data in real time spatially and temporally census’ are not very useful unless there is a lack of information on a certain topic. 
Multiple methods were used to calculate and produce results based on data given. One of the more popular methods was to use ArcGIS to map and analyze the data so that it could be studied (Zong et al., 2018). Two of the studies I looked at used ArcGIS to accomplish their study and ArcGIS seems extremely helpful when it comes to data and studies that require mapping so I could see it as a possible tool I would consider using in the future. The complex network analysis method that was mentioned earlier is also good because most of the data derived from Tencent is off the social media applications, making the social network analysis process more simple. One last method that was introduced was the random tree method. The random tree method is the process of combining a lot of individual decision trees so that they can process things as a group instead of individually, allowing computations to be made faster and more efficiently. First the researchers set up the covariates within the datasets they had and then the researchers in the study then used a combination of dasymetric population mapping and a density estimation after making the random tree model to create their final product (Guaghan et al.,2016). I think that a random tree model is one of the most accurate models to use as all the decision trees working together makes it hard to obtain an error in calculations unless all the decision trees make an error. I would definitely look more into the random tree model as it is very reliable. I think using ArcGIS,using complex network analysis,  or using a random tree model are the best possible methods to use when it comes to mapping and spatial patterns that involve migration as the mapping function is extremely useful.
Looking back on my research, I feel like there is a lot of information about migration in China given how big of a country it is. Throughout my research I have encountered many different methods that were used to quantify and measure the level of migration that occurs within China. Many of the studies that I looked at had different focuses as some wanted to focus on studies during a certain period of time and others wanted to see how a city or a part of the country had progressed over time. Looking at all these studies and the reasons the researchers had for conducting these studies was interesting as I didn’t know much about how crowded cities outside of Beijing and the level of traffic other cities could experience. Because all my relatives live in Beijing, I have been there many times to visit them and have seen firsthand the levels of traffic that occur on a daily basis. There are regulations set in place to prevent everyone from owning a car as that would clog the streets and make the traffic situation even worse. I can imagine a similar situation in cities that are also urban centers such as Shanghai or Hong Kong. As people travel to other cities or other provinces in search of work or good opportunities, holidays can result in the mass migration of people as shown in a few of the studies I looked at (insert citation here). An example would be this year, when COVID-19 came out. Because of COVID-19, China wanted to stop the spread of the disease and cancelled all travel between cities and especially from the epicenter of Wuhan. Because of this, data this year on migration may be slightly flawed due to the fact that many people were unable to travel and visit their families because of travel restrictions. This data would look completely different from the data of previous years, and could cause potential problems.
A gap in the literature that I saw was that there weren’t that many studies on specific types of people. The only study that I found which had a study like that separated the people being observed into three different subgroups of people ranging from people who were permanent residents to people who were only visitors or tourists (Wu et al., 2020). I think it would be interesting to look into where specific subgroups of people migrate to and observe their spatial patterns. Although this may be an intrusion of privacy, one method of making subgroups would be to separate people based on socioeconomic status to see where people migrate to and from. Patterns such as people who have a lower socioeconomic status migrating from urban areas to rural areas where the residents have an even lower socioeconomic status would be able to be observed. By making data more specific, it would be possible to see more specific patterns within populations and allow the Chinese government to improve on development plans such as urban planning and resource allocation.















Works Cited
Gaughan, A. E., Stevens, F. R., Huang, Z., Nieves, J. J., Sorichetta, A., Lai, S., … Tatem, A. J. (2016, February 16). Spatiotemporal patterns of population in mainland China, 1990 to 2010. Retrieved from https://www.nature.com/articles/sdata20165
Pan, J., & Lai, J. (2019, June 5). Spatial pattern of population mobility among cities in China: Case study of the National Day plus Mid-Autumn Festival based on Tencent migration data. Retrieved from https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0264275118311703
Deng, Y., Qi, W., Fu, B., & Wang, K. (2019, July 26). Geographical transformations of urban sprawl: Exploring the spatial heterogeneity across cities in China 1992–2015. Retrieved from https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0264275119300307?via=ihub
Ma, T., Lu, R., Zhao, N., & Shaw, S.-L. (2018). An estimate of rural exodus in China using location-aware data. PLoS ONE, 13(8), 1–14. https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0201458
Fan, C. C. (2005). Interprovincial Migration, Population Redistribution, and Regional Development in China: 1990 and 2000 Census Comparisons. Professional Geographer, 57(2), 295–311. https://doi.org/10.1111/j.0033-0124.2005.00479.x
Hu, M. (2019). Visualizing the largest annual human migration during the Spring Festival travel season in China. Environment and Planning A: Economy and Space, 51(8), 1618–1621. https://doi.org/10.1177/0308518X19845908
Wu, Y., Wang, L., Fan, L., Yang, M., Zhang, Y., & Feng, Y. (2020, March 5). Comparison of the spatiotemporal mobility patterns among typical subgroups of the actual population with mobile phone data: A case study of Beijing. https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0264275119316725
Zhang, W., Chong, Z., Li, X., & Nie, G. (2020, February 13). Spatial patterns and determinant factors of population flow networks in China: Analysis on Tencent Location Big Data. https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0264275119311862
Zong, W., Cheng, L., Xia, N., Jiang, P., Wei, X., Zhang, F., … Li, M. (2018, August 22). New technical framework for assessing the spatial pattern of land development in Yunnan Province, China: A "production-life-ecology" perspective. https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0197397518302674
Zhang, G., Zheng, D., Wu, H., Wang, J., & Li, S. (2019, November 21). Assessing the role of high-speed rail in shaping the spatial patterns of urban and rural development: A case of the Middle Reaches of the Yangtze River, China.  https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0048969719353926
